try not to wear the same pajamas for
several nights in a row
otherwise bacteria and the skin cells
your body sheds
will collect in your clothing and then
even if you regularly
wash and change your bedding it won't
stay clean and fresh for long
your pajamas will transfer all that
yucky stuff to your bed sheets
plus people often sweat while sleeping
their sleepwear absorbs all that sweat
and this creates a perfect playground
for bacteria
they adore dark moist places and nothing
will make them happier
than producing bad smells and disturbing
your sleep
that's why crawling to bed in sweaty
pajamas can make you restless
even worse you might start to feel itchy
all over
at the same time fresh sleepwear and bed
linen can help you relax
so you can wake up refreshed
if you don't have insomnia you'll spend
around one
third of your life asleep but there are
creatures that sleep
even more for example for a dog
it's 44 of their life and for a python
75 percent
if you catch yourself clenching your jaw
because of stress
put it to work instead munch on an apple
a carrot or trail mix it'll distract you
and help you to wind down
researchers have discovered that people
from different countries and cultures
have the same dreams the most common
ones that occur
across the world include falling and
being chased
people also dream about flying arriving
late
feeling cold and being unable to move
[Music]
your most vivid dreams occur during the
rem
rapid eye movement sleep this stage
repeats in short episodes throughout the
entire night
such episodes are usually an hour and a
half or two hours apart
by the way there's a theory that while
sleeping you don't have a single
dreamless moment
some kinds of eye movements during rem
sleep correspond to certain events
happening in your dreams it means that
at least
a part of the dreaming process is
similar to watching a movie
you see longer dreams in the morning
hours and each next episode of rem sleep
lasts more than the previous that's one
of the reasons why you're more likely to
remember your dreams on weekends
when you can afford to sleep in
[Music]
your dreams look so realistic thanks to
your brain
its job is to create an adventure or
specific environment in your dream
to do this the brain uses all kinds of
sensory data
that's why the picture often looks
confusingly realistic
[Music]
your brain contains more than 86 billion
nerve cells
and all of them are joined with one
another by 100 trillion connections
that's way more than the number of stars
in our home
milky way galaxy but if you didn't
believe that
and decided to count all those nerve
cells in your brain
it'd take you up to 3000 years
your brain can easily get bored a study
has discovered
that every 10 minutes it needs some
emotional jolt
it's crucial for resetting your
attention
people are the only mammals that can and
do
delay sleep willingly
it's impossible to catch up on sleep
a harvard study has shown that trying to
compensate for sleep
negatively influences your ability to
focus and makes your reaction time
longer
[Music]
your dreams are a complex mixture of
your imagination
memories and knowledge the average
person has from four to seven dreams
every night
but not all people remember them
however well you rest you're bound to
feel at least a bit tired
at two completely different times of the
day 2pm
and 2 am that's when a natural dip in
alertness happens
it's totally responsible for your
irresistible desire to have a post-lunch
nap
during rem sleep you can start to act
out your dreams
that's why your brain temporarily
paralyzes your muscles during these
periods
otherwise you may accidentally hurt
yourself
if you mix five tablespoons of cane
sugar and two tablespoons of sea salt
you'll have fewer problems with sleep
just put a bit of this mixture under
your tongue
before going to bed
there's an opinion that falling asleep
at night should ideally take from 10 to
15 minutes
if you need less than 5 minutes to crash
out you're likely sleep deprived
a 2015 study suggested that people with
their beds
surrounded by clutter had more problems
with sleep
it turns out what you see when walking
into the room
can influence how fast you fall asleep
[Music]
there's evidence that not only people
but also animals
and even some insects can have problems
with sleep
in this case they begin to put on excess
weight
become clumsy and often start to lose
their balance
these are the same symptoms people with
sleep deprivation have
[Music]
if you can't fall asleep go blow some
soap bubbles
this process resembles a deep breathing
exercise
it'll effectively take your mind off
whatever anxious pre-bedtime thoughts
you're having
[Music]
one study claims that in your dreams you
can only see the faces you already know
or have seen on tv or social media
if you want to sleep better at night try
to get as much natural sunlight during
the day as possible
it'll both make you more energetic in
the daytime and
improve the quality of your sleep
[Music]
people only using 10 of their brain
power is just a myth
even when you're resting or sleeping
more than a tenth of your brain is
working
admittedly not all of its regions are
active around the clock
but most of them work on this or that
task 24
7. regular physical exercise
helps you to fall asleep faster and more
easily
it also makes your sleep better at the
same time
if you exercise right before going to
bed you'll most likely have problems
drifting off
putting on a pair of socks can help you
fall asleep
when you warm up your cold feet your
blood vessels become wider
your brain perceives it as a signal its
bedtime
within five minutes after waking up you
forget
fifty percent of your dreams five more
minutes
and ninety percent of the memories are
gone it likely happens because you start
to use your brain
much more as soon as you're awake and it
doesn't have
enough resources to get you through the
day and remember everything you saw in
your dreams at night
[Music]
to wind down in the evening try to make
your home dimmer
opt for soft light lamps or even candles
instead of switching on bright overhead
lights
indirect light not only creates a calmer
setting
but also doesn't mess with your body's
natural sleep wake cycle
many of your dreams are rather bizarre
and don't try to deny it
that's because the part of your brain
responsible for making sense
shuts down when you're dreaming
on average when a person snores it
doesn't get louder than 60 decibels
that's as loud as a regular conversation
but sometimes
the noise level can reach 80 decibels
and this is as loud as a working food
blender
you dream in pictures this means most of
your dreams are visual
with few sound effects and little
movement
the human brain doesn't form completely
until age 25
and the curious thing its development
starts from the back
and then continues toward the front it
means that your frontal lobes
which are in charge of reasoning and
planning are the last
to mature if you can't drift off
however hard you try start to replay
your day
in reverse think about what you had for
dinner
then about how you got home from work
recollect what happened in the office
and how you spent your afternoon trying
to remember
even the tiniest details is usually
boring enough to make you doze off
some sleep experts claim there's a
direct link between your personality
and your favorite sleeping position for
example
those who prefer resting on their
stomach with their hands by the pillow
and the head turned to the side tend to
be bold and outspoken
they also don't take kindly to criticism
a person who sleeps on their side
with the knees bent toward the chest is
likely to be sensitive
and a bit shy and those who sleep on
their back
in the starfish position are selfless
people
always ready to help sleep experts are
sure
that people who smell lavender before
going to bed
or have it nearby during the night have
fewer problems with sleep
a scented candle will do too however
counter-intuitive it may sound
plunging your face in a bowl with ice
cold water can help you fall asleep
at first it'll shock you even more awake
at the same time
it'll reset your nervous system freezing
water
will trigger a reaction lowering your
blood pressure and heart rate
it'll make you relaxed refreshed and
ready for bed